Docs: Behaviors (#306)
grafana/scenes: docusaurus/docs/advanced-behaviors.md

---
id: advanced-behaviors
title: Behaviors
---

With behaviors you can implement custom scene logic that will be performed as a side effect. Behaviors are useful for performing side effects like conditionally hiding elements on a scene or attaching shared functionalities across scene objects.

## Defining a behavior

Behaviors can be implemented in two ways:

- As a pure function that gets called when its parent is activated.
- As a scene object that is activated when its parent is activated.

> Behaviors can be attached to another scene object using `$behaviors` state property. For example you can attach behaviors to a `SceneQueryRunner`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behaviors can be attached to scene objects using `$behaviors` state property. For example, you can attach behaviors to a `SceneQueryRunner`:
```

  },
  queries: [
    {
      refId: 'A',
      range: true,
      format: 'time_series',
      expr: 'rate(prometheus_http_requests_total[5m])',
    },
  ],
});

const cpuUsage = new SceneQueryRunner({
  datasource: {
    type: 'prometheus',
    uid: 'gdev-prometheus',
  },
  queries: [
    {
      refId: 'A',
      expr: 'avg by (job, instance, mode) (rate(node_cpu_seconds_total[5m]))',
    },
  ],
});

const scene = new EmbeddedScene({
  $timeRange: new SceneTimeRange({ from: 'now-5m', to: 'now' }),
  $behaviors: [new behaviors.CursorSync({ key: 'cursor-sync-scope', sync: DashboardCursorSync.Tooltip })],
  body: new SceneFlexLayout({
    direction: 'row',
    children: [
      new SceneFlexItem({
        width: '50%',
        height: 300,
        body: PanelBuilders.timeseries().setData(httpRequests).setTitle('HTTP Requests').build(),
      }),
      new SceneFlexItem({
        width: '50%',
        height: 300,
        body: PanelBuilders.timeseries()
          .setTitle('CPU Usage')
          .setTimeRange(new SceneTimeRange({ from: 'now-6h', to: 'now' }))
          .setData(cpuUsage)
          .build(),
      }),
    ],
  }),
});
```

## Source code

> [View the example source code](https://github.com/grafana/scenes/tree/main/docusaurus/docs/advanced-behaviors.tsx)

Reviewer: can we link to https://github.com/grafana/scenes/blob/main/packages/scenes-app/src/demos/behaviors/behaviorsDemo.tsx  instead here to not have to maintain both?

Author: Not really. Every doc page has a corresponding full source code available so that it can be run or copied.

Reviewer: @dprokop 
not sure I understand why they are needed, will be very hard to keep them working if they are not part of the build

Author: @torkelo  - just for the sake of having a place where we can verify the examples in the docs are working. Ideally, those files were attached directly as code examples in the docs, but felt like a stretch at the time of working on it.

Reviewer: @dprokop ah, I can see they actually "compile" in vs code (no errors). So I see the point now.

Author: also - they are part of the demo app.
